www/src/pages/en/installation.md, before:

---
title: Installation
description: Installation instructions for Create T3 App
layout: ../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
---

To scaffold an app using `create-t3-app`, run any of the following three commands and answer the command prompt questions:

### npm

```bash
npm create t3-app@latest
```

### yarn

```bash
yarn create t3-app
```

### pnpm

```bash
pnpm create t3-app@latest
```

After your app has been scaffolded, check out the [first steps](/en/usage/first-steps) to get started on your new application.

## Advanced usage

| Option/Flag       | Description                                                             |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `[dir]`           | Include a directory argument with a name for the project                |
| `--noGit`         | Explicitly tell the CLI to not initialize a new git repo in the project |
| `-y`, `--default` | Bypass the CLI and bootstrap a new t3-app with all options selected     |
| `--noInstall`     | Generate project without installing dependencies                        |

## Experimental usage

For our CI, we have some experimental flags that allow you to scaffold any app without any prompts. If this use case applies to you, you can use these flags. Please note that these flags are experimental and may change in the future without following semver versioning.

| Flag         | Description                         |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| `--CI`       | Let the CLI know you're in CI mode  |
| `--trpc`     | Include tRPC in the project         |
| `--prisma`   | Include Prisma in the project       |
| `--nextAuth` | Include NextAuth.js in the project  |
| `--tailwind` | Include Tailwind CSS in the project |

**Note: If you don't provide the `CI` flag, the rest of these flags has no effect.**

You don't need to explicitly opt-out of the packages you don't want. However, if you prefer to be explicit, you can pass `false`, e.g. `--nextAuth false`.

### Example

The following would scaffold a T3 App with tRPC and Tailwind CSS.

```bash
pnpm dlx create-t3-app@latest --CI --trpc --tailwind
```

Commit message:

feat: override default config files
simple config override options for cli

regex match tailwind file extension

add lint rule to remove invalid end of line linting error

www/src/pages/en/installation.md, after:

---
title: Installation
description: Installation instructions for Create T3 App
layout: ../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
---

To scaffold an app using `create-t3-app`, run any of the following three commands and answer the command prompt questions:

### npm

```bash
npm create t3-app@latest
```

### yarn

```bash
yarn create t3-app
```

### pnpm

```bash
pnpm create t3-app@latest
```

After your app has been scaffolded, check out the [first steps](/en/usage/first-steps) to get started on your new application.

## Advanced usage

| Option/Flag         | Description                                                             |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `[dir]`             | Include a directory argument with a name for the project                |
| `--noGit`           | Explicitly tell the CLI to not initialize a new git repo in the project |
| `-y`, `--default`   | Bypass the CLI and bootstrap a new t3-app with all options selected     |
| `--noInstall`       | Generate project without installing dependencies                        |
| `--tsConfig [path]` | Override default typescript config file. File path must be absolute.    |
| `--twConfig [path]` | Override default tailwind config file. File path must be absolute.      |

## Experimental usage

For our CI, we have some experimental flags that allow you to scaffold any app without any prompts. If this use case applies to you, you can use these flags. Please note that these flags are experimental and may change in the future without following semver versioning.

| Flag         | Description                         |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| `--CI`       | Let the CLI know you're in CI mode  |
| `--trpc`     | Include tRPC in the project         |
| `--prisma`   | Include Prisma in the project       |
| `--nextAuth` | Include NextAuth.js in the project  |
| `--tailwind` | Include Tailwind CSS in the project |

**Note: If you don't provide the `CI` flag, the rest of these flags has no effect.**

You don't need to explicitly opt-out of the packages you don't want. However, if you prefer to be explicit, you can pass `false`, e.g. `--nextAuth false`.

### Example

The following would scaffold a T3 App with tRPC and Tailwind CSS.

```bash
pnpm dlx create-t3-app@latest --CI --trpc --tailwind
```
