www/src/pages/en/usage/env-variables.mdx, before:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: Getting started with Create T3 App
layout: ../../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
isMdx: true
---

import Callout from "../../../components/docs/callout.tsx";

Create T3 App uses its own package [@t3-oss/env-nextjs](https://env.t3.gg) along with [zod](https://zod.dev)  under the hood for validating environment variables at runtime _and_ buildtime by providing a simple logic in `src/env.mjs`.

## env.mjs

_TLDR; If you want to add a new environment variable, you must add it to your `.env` as it is defined in the `src/env.mjs` validator._

```ts:env.mjs
import { createEnv } from "@t3-oss/env-nextjs";
import { z } from "zod";
 
export const env = createEnv({
  server: {
    NODE_ENV: z.enum(["development", "test", "production"]),
  },
  client: {
    // NEXT_PUBLIC_CLIENTVAR: z.string(),
  },
  runtimeEnv: {
    NODE_ENV: process.env.NODE_ENV,
  },
});
```

T3 Env brings a new concept across the `createEnv`, which is responsible for creating the schema and will include the main validation logic for client and server-sided environment variables. 

<Callout type="info">
    For more information about how `createEnv` internally works, check out the [T3 Env](https://env.t3.gg/docs/introduction) docs
</Callout>

## Using Environment Variables

When you want to use your environment variables, you can import them from the created `env.mjs` (or `env.mjs`) and use them as you would normally do. If you import this on the client and try accessing a server-side environment variable, you will get a runtime error.

```ts:pages/api/hello.ts
import { env } from "../../env.mjs";

// `env` is fully typesafe and provides autocompletion
const dbUrl = env.DATABASE_URL;
```

```ts:pages/index.tsx
import { env } from "../env.mjs";

// ❌ This will throw a runtime error
const dbUrl = env.DATABASE_URL;

// ✅ This is fine
const wsKey = env.NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_KEY;
```

## .env.example

Since the default `.env` file is not committed to version control, we have also included a `.env.example` file, in which you can optionally keep a copy of your `.env` file with any secrets removed. This is not required, but we recommend keeping the example up to date to make it as easy as possible for contributors to get started with their environment.

Some frameworks and build tools, like Next.js, suggest that you store secrets in a `.env.local` file and commit `.env` files to your project. This is not recommended, as it could make it easy to accidentally commit secrets to your project. Instead, we recommend that you store secrets in `.env`, keep your `.env` file in your `.gitignore` and only commit `.env.example` files to your project.

## Adding Environment Variables

To ensure your build never completes without the environment variables the project needs, you will need to add new environment variables in **two** locations:

📄 `.env`: Enter your environment variable like you would normally do in a `.env` file, i.e. `KEY=VALUE`

📄 `env.mjs`: Add the appropriate validation logic for the environment variables by defining a Zod schema inside `createEnv` for each one, e.g. `KEY: z.string()`.

Optionally, you can also keep `.env.example` updated:

📄 `.env.example`: Enter your environment variable, but be sure to not include the value if it is secret, i.e. `KEY=VALUE` or `KEY=`

### Example

_I want to add my Twitter API Token as a server-side environment variable_

1. Add the environment variable to `.env`:

```
TWITTER_API_TOKEN=1234567890
```

2. Add the environment variable to `env.mjs`:

```ts
import { createEnv } from "@t3-oss/env-nextjs";
import { z } from "zod";
 
export const env = createEnv({
  server: {
    TWITTER_API_TOKEN: z.string(),
  },
  // ...
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  An empty string is still a string, so `z.string()` will accept an empty string
  as a valid value. If you want to make sure that the environment variable is
  not empty, you can use `z.string().min(1)`.
</Callout>

3. _Optional:_ Add the environment variable to `.env.example` and make sure not to include the secret

```
TWITTER_API_TOKEN=
```

Commit message:

docs: prevent double instance and specify `runtimeEnv` option as required

www/src/pages/en/usage/env-variables.mdx, after:

---
title: Environment Variables
description: Getting started with Create T3 App
layout: ../../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
isMdx: true
---

import Callout from "../../../components/docs/callout.tsx";

Create T3 App uses its own package [@t3-oss/env-nextjs](https://env.t3.gg) along with [zod](https://zod.dev)  under the hood for validating environment variables at runtime _and_ buildtime by providing a simple logic in `src/env.mjs`.

## env.mjs

_TLDR; If you want to add a new environment variable, you must add it to your `.env` as it is defined in the `src/env.mjs` validator._

```ts:env.mjs
import { createEnv } from "@t3-oss/env-nextjs";
import { z } from "zod";
 
export const env = createEnv({
  server: {
    NODE_ENV: z.enum(["development", "test", "production"]),
  },
  client: {
    // NEXT_PUBLIC_CLIENTVAR: z.string(),
  },
  runtimeEnv: {
    NODE_ENV: process.env.NODE_ENV,
  },
});
```

T3 Env brings a new concept across the `createEnv`, which is responsible for creating the schema and will include the main validation logic for client and server-sided environment variables. 

<Callout type="info">
    For more information about how `createEnv` internally works, check out the [T3 Env](https://env.t3.gg/docs/introduction) docs
</Callout>

## Using Environment Variables

When you want to use your environment variables, you can import them from the created `env.mjs` and use them as you would normally do. If you import this on the client and try accessing a server-side environment variable, you will get a runtime error.

```ts:pages/api/hello.ts
import { env } from "../../env.mjs";

// `env` is fully typesafe and provides autocompletion
const dbUrl = env.DATABASE_URL;
```

```ts:pages/index.tsx
import { env } from "../env.mjs";

// ❌ This will throw a runtime error
const dbUrl = env.DATABASE_URL;

// ✅ This is fine
const wsKey = env.NEXT_PUBLIC_WS_KEY;
```

## .env.example

Since the default `.env` file is not committed to version control, we have also included a `.env.example` file, in which you can optionally keep a copy of your `.env` file with any secrets removed. This is not required, but we recommend keeping the example up to date to make it as easy as possible for contributors to get started with their environment.

Some frameworks and build tools, like Next.js, suggest that you store secrets in a `.env.local` file and commit `.env` files to your project. This is not recommended, as it could make it easy to accidentally commit secrets to your project. Instead, we recommend that you store secrets in `.env`, keep your `.env` file in your `.gitignore` and only commit `.env.example` files to your project.

## Adding Environment Variables

To ensure your build never completes without the environment variables the project needs, you will need to add new environment variables in **two** locations:

📄 `.env`: Enter your environment variable like you would normally do in a `.env` file, i.e. `KEY=VALUE`

📄 `env.mjs`: Add the appropriate validation logic for the environment variables by defining a Zod schema inside `createEnv` for each one, e.g. `KEY: z.string()`. Besides that, make sure to destruct them in the `runtimeEnv` option, e.g.: `KEY: process.env.KEY`

Optionally, you can also keep `.env.example` updated:

📄 `.env.example`: Enter your environment variable, but be sure to not include the value if it is secret, i.e. `KEY=VALUE` or `KEY=`

### Example

_I want to add my Twitter API Token as a server-side environment variable_

1. Add the environment variable to `.env`:

```
TWITTER_API_TOKEN=1234567890
```

2. Add the environment variable to `env.mjs`:

```ts
import { createEnv } from "@t3-oss/env-nextjs";
import { z } from "zod";
 
export const env = createEnv({
  server: {
    TWITTER_API_TOKEN: z.string(),
  },
  // ...
});
```

<Callout type="info">
  An empty string is still a string, so `z.string()` will accept an empty string
  as a valid value. If you want to make sure that the environment variable is
  not empty, you can use `z.string().min(1)`.
</Callout>

3. _Optional:_ Add the environment variable to `.env.example` and make sure not to include the secret in the `runtimeEnv` option

```
export const env = createEnv({
  // ...
  runtimeEnv: {
    TWITTER_API_TOKEN: process.env.TWITTER_API_TOKEN,
  },
});
```
