www/src/pages/en/usage/next-js.md, before:

---
title: Next.js
description: Usage of Next.js
layout: ../../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
---

Next.js is a backend framework for your React applications.

<div class="embed">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/W4UhNo3HAMw" title="Next.js is a backend framework" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Check out [Theo's Next.js Conf talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4UhNo3HAMw) to get a better understanding of what Next.js is and how it works.</p>

## Why should I use it?

We love React. It has made UI development accessible in ways we never imagined before. It also can lead developers down some rough paths. Next.js offers a lightly opinionated, heavily optimized approach to creating applications using React. From routing to API definitions to image rendering, we trust Next.js to lead developers towards good decisions.

Pairing Next.js with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) makes developing and deploying web apps easier than ever before. Their extremely generous free-tier and super intuitive interface provides a point and click solution to deploy your site (We ❤️ Vercel)

## Get Static/Server Props

A key feature of Next.js is its data fetching capabilities. We highly recommend reading through the [official documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) to understand how to use each method and how they differ. `getServerSideProps` is generally discouraged unless there is a good reason for it, due to the fact that it is a blocking call and will slow down your site. [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/incremental-static-regeneration) is a great alternative to `getServerSideProps` when the data is dynamic and can be fetched incrementally.

## Useful Resources

| Resource                       | Link                               |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| Next.js Documentation          | https://nextjs.org/docs            |
| Next.js GitHub                 | https://github.com/vercel/next.js  |
| Next.js Blog                   | https://nextjs.org/blog            |
| Next.js Discord                | https://nextjs.org/discord         |
| Next.js Twitter                | https://twitter.com/nextjs         |
| Vercel/Next.js YouTube Channel | https://www.youtube.com/c/VercelHQ |

Commit message:

Update next-js.md to add an example on how to use getServerSideProps anyway

www/src/pages/en/usage/next-js.md, after:

---
title: Next.js
description: Usage of Next.js
layout: ../../../layouts/docs.astro
lang: en
---

Next.js is a backend framework for your React applications.

<div class="embed">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/W4UhNo3HAMw" title="Next.js is a backend framework" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Check out [Theo's Next.js Conf talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4UhNo3HAMw) to get a better understanding of what Next.js is and how it works.</p>

## Why should I use it?

We love React. It has made UI development accessible in ways we never imagined before. It also can lead developers down some rough paths. Next.js offers a lightly opinionated, heavily optimized approach to creating applications using React. From routing to API definitions to image rendering, we trust Next.js to lead developers towards good decisions.

Pairing Next.js with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) makes developing and deploying web apps easier than ever before. Their extremely generous free-tier and super intuitive interface provides a point and click solution to deploy your site (We ❤️ Vercel)

## Get Static/Server Props

A key feature of Next.js is its data fetching capabilities. We highly recommend reading through the [official documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching) to understand how to use each method and how they differ. `getServerSideProps` is generally discouraged unless there is a good reason for it, due to the fact that it is a blocking call and will slow down your site. [Incremental Static Regeneration](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching/incremental-static-regeneration) is a great alternative to `getServerSideProps` when the data is dynamic and can be fetched incrementally.

If you need to use this feature anyway, check these links out: [Advanced tRPC - Callers, functions, and gSSP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G2ZzmgShHgQ) and [SSG-Helpers](https://trpc.io/docs/v9/ssg-helpers)

## Useful Resources

| Resource                       | Link                               |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| Next.js Documentation          | https://nextjs.org/docs            |
| Next.js GitHub                 | https://github.com/vercel/next.js  |
| Next.js Blog                   | https://nextjs.org/blog            |
| Next.js Discord                | https://nextjs.org/discord         |
| Next.js Twitter                | https://twitter.com/nextjs         |
| Vercel/Next.js YouTube Channel | https://www.youtube.com/c/VercelHQ |
